procedures: mounting secrets as a file or as an environment variable (#2083)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/end-user-guide/partials/proc_mounting-a-secret-as-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-or-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container

[id="mounting-a-secret-as-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container_{context}"]
= Mounting a secret as an environment variable into a workspace container

> In {prod-short}, you can mount the {platforms-name} secret from your {orch-namespace} as an environment variable (or variables) in single-workspace or multiple-workspace containers.

Reviewer: What was wrong with the orig. version? In fact, I think it was more descriptive. The new formulation only vaguely suggests that something *can* be done. I'd just use "*This* section".

Author: @rkratky IBM GS, p 22: "Avoid self-referential text whenever possible, such as "This topic is about" or "This section describes". Instead, focus on the purpose or value of the content, and include words that users are likely to search for."
This is a tricky topic, and I haven't come up with a standard solution for myself. Also, in a way it's something of a fluffy truism - this section is about what the content of this section is. The trick is how to phrase the introductory sentence: in conceptual modules this isn't a problem, but in procedural modules is where we start getting "You can ...".
By the way, I've already encountered complications with "This section describes": when the section gains siblings or subsections (These sections? The following sections? The sections in a different .adoc file?), the sentence becomes outdated and is less likely to be updated.
Also, if I skip this guidance, then it will be raised during reviews.
@themr0c Any thoughts?

Author: @rkratky and @themr0c :) Speaking of fluff, what else I noticed about introductory sentences to procedures is that they often contain the reused phrase from the heading, and so the same phrase appears on two adjacent lines. I don't have a solution to offer, but it does look like fluff.

Reviewer: > IBM GS, p 22: "Avoid self-referential text whenever possible, such as "This topic is about" or "This section describes". Instead, focus on the purpose or value of the content, and include words that users are likely to search for."

Good point.

> in procedural modules is where we start getting "You can ...".

_You can_ in general is superfluous -- of course you can. The question is whether you are supposed to do it, or not. Our docs (not just Che) overuse _you can_.

We should describe what the procedure accomplishes. In this case, something like:

_{prod-short} allows mounting a {platforms-name} secret from the user’s {orch-namespace} as an environment variable, or variables, into single-workspace or multiple-workspace containers._

> I've already encountered complications with "This section describes": when the section gains siblings or subsections (These sections? The following sections? The sections in a different .adoc file?), the sentence becomes outdated and is less likely to be updated.

Never refer to _other_ sections. Always consider that all modules (units of content) need to make sense on their own, and the reader may not follow the doc in a linear fasion. Forf this, it's useful to use the _"Every page is page one" check. IOW, always ask yourself whether a module/section would make sense to the reader if they started reading right there.

> ntroductory sentences to procedures is that they often contain the reused phrase from the heading, and so the same phrase appears on two adjacent lines

Yeah. Ideally, the intro/context paragraph should have a bit broader description. But in a pinch, a repetition is better than not intro sentence, I'd say.

Author: @rkratky Thank you, Robert. This is very helpful!

.Prerequisites

* A running instance of {prod-short}. See {link-installing-an-instance}.

.Procedure

. Create a new secret in the {platforms-namespace} where a new workspace is deployed.
. Define the default behavior for mounting secrets in the `automount-workspace-secret` annotation, which takes a boolean value:

> ** `'true'` enables automatic mounting into all workspace containers.

Reviewer: Quotes needed?

Author: I already replied in response to another similar comment here.

** `'false'` disables automatic mounting into all workspace containers. (To mount a secret, a user must request it in the devfile component by using the `automountWorkspaceSecrets:true` property.)

> . Set the name of the secret's environment variable in the `env-name` annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the name of the secret environment variable in the `env-name` annotation.
```

Author: @rkratky I understand your point on why we need to drop the apostrophe, but I only added the apostrophe to separate `the secret` and the `environment variable`.
Otherwise, it can be misunderstood as an `environment variable` that is `secret` because `secret` is also an adjective (in addition to being a noun as intended above).
As an alternative, we may put something wordier here:
`". Set the name of the environment variable of the secret in the `env-name` annotation."`

. Include the `mount-as: env` annotation.

> . Match the secret's `labels` to the set of labels configured in the `che.workspace.provision.secret.labels` property of {prod-short}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Match the `labels` of the secret to the set of labels configured in the `che.workspace.provision.secret.labels` property of {prod-short}.
```

> . Set the secret's key-value pair in the secret's `data` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the key-value pair of the secret in the `data` field of the secret.
```

> . If the secret must have multiple key-value pairs in the `data` field, set a different environment variable name with the `<__key__>_env-name` annotation for each key-value pair.

Reviewer: Avoid 'if' unless necessary. Describe what to do. Don't introduce the need for weighing decisions.
```suggestion
. To set multiple key-value pairs in the `data` field of the secret, use a different environment variable name with the `__<key>___env-name` annotation format for each key-value pair.
```

Author: @rkratky I considered this sentence a conditional because the user does not have to complete this step unless the condition is met: "If the condition is met, then [you must] do something." If we rewrite this as "To do something, do something," then, in addition to making it ambiguous ("To do something" = the underlying reason or purpose or condition?), we lose the conditional and expect the user to do something regardless of whether the condition is met or not. Here is my counter-proposal:

`. If you set multiple key-value pairs in the `data` field of the secret, then use a different environment variable name with the `__<key>___env-name` annotation format for each key-value pair.`

+

> NOTE: The maximum length of an annotation name in a {orch-name} secret is 63 characters, of which 9 characters are reserved for a prefix that ends with `/`. This acts as a restriction for the maximum length of the key that can be used for the secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The maximum length of an annotation name in a {orch-name} secret is 63 characters, of which 9 characters are reserved for a prefix that ends with `/`. This restrics the maximum length of the key that can be used for the secret.
```

.Example: Mounting a secret as an environment variable
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: mvn-settings-secret
  annotations:
    che.eclipse.org/automount-workspace-secret: 'true' <1>
    che.eclipse.org/mount-as: env <2>
    che.eclipse.org/__<key_1>___env-name: __<FOO_ENV>__ <3>
    che.eclipse.org/__<key_2>___env-name: __<OTHER_ENV>__ <4>
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: che.eclipse.org <5>
    app.kubernetes.io/component: workspace-secret <6>
data:
  __<key_1>__: __<value_1>__ <7>
  __<key_2>__: __<value_2>__ <8>
----
<1> Enables automatic mounting into all workspace containers.
<2> Mounts the secret as a variable. 

> <3> Provisions the `__<FOO_ENV>__` environment variable into all workspace containers using the value of `__<key_1>__`.

Reviewer: Don't use *foo*, *bar*, or *fubar*/*foobar*. It's slangy.
```suggestion
<3> Provisions the `__<KEY_ENV>__` environment variable into all workspace containers using the value of `__<key_1>__`.
```

. Define the default behavior for mounting secrets in the `automount-workspace-secret` annotation, which takes a boolean value:
** `'true'` enables automatic mounting into all workspace containers.
** `'false'` disables automatic mounting into all workspace containers. To mount a secret, a user must request it in the devfile component by using the `automountWorkspaceSecrets:true` property.
. Set the name of the secret's environment variable in the `env-name` annotation.
. Include the `mount-as: env` annotation.
. Match the secret's `labels` to the set of labels configured in the `che.workspace.provision.secret.labels` property of {prod-short}.
. Set the secret's key-value pair in the secret's `data` field.
. If the secret must have multiple key-value pairs in the `data` field, set a different environment variable name with the `<__key__>_env-name` annotation for each key-value pair.
+
NOTE: The maximum length of an annotation name in a {orch-name} secret is 63 characters, of which 9 characters are reserved for a prefix that ends with `/`. This acts as a restriction for the maximum length of the key that can be used for the secret.

> .Example: Mounting a secret as an environment variable
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> apiVersion: v1
> kind: Secret
> metadata:
>   name: mvn-settings-secret
>   annotations:
>     che.eclipse.org/automount-workspace-secret: 'true' <1>
>     che.eclipse.org/env-name: FOO_ENV <2>
>     che.eclipse.org/mount-as: env <3>
>   labels:
>     app.kubernetes.io/part-of: che.eclipse.org <4>
>     app.kubernetes.io/component: workspace-secret <5>
> data:
>   mykey: myvalue <6>
> ----
> <1> Enables automatic mounting into all workspace containers.
> <2> Provisions the `FOO_ENV` environment variable into all workspace containers.
> <3> Mounts the secret as a variable.
> <4> Matches the configured default label.
> <5> Matches the configured default label.
> <6> Provisions the `myvalue` data key value into all workspace containers.
> 
> .Example: Mounting a secret with multiple key-value pairs in the `data` field
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> apiVersion: v1
> kind: Secret
> metadata:
>   name: mvn-settings-secret
>   annotations:
>     che.eclipse.org/automount-workspace-secret: 'true'
>     che.eclipse.org/mount-as: env
>     che.eclipse.org/mykey_env-name: FOO_ENV <1>
>     che.eclipse.org/otherkey_env-name: OTHER_ENV <2>
>   labels:
>    ...
> data:
>   mykey: myvalue <3>
>   otherkey: othervalue <4>
> ----
> <1> Environment variable provisioned with the `myvalue` value.
> <2> Environment variable provisioned with the `othervalue` value.
> <3> Key-value pair provisioned with the `FOO_ENV` environment variable.
> <4> Key-value pair provisioned with the `OTHER_ENV` environment variable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Example: Mounting a secret as an environment variable
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: mvn-settings-secret
  annotations:
    che.eclipse.org/automount-workspace-secret: 'true' <1>
    che.eclipse.org/mount-as: env <2>
    che.eclipse.org/__<mykey>__env-name: __<FOO_ENV>__ <3>
    che.eclipse.org/__<otherkey>___env-name: __<OTHER_ENV>__ <4>
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: che.eclipse.org <5>
    app.kubernetes.io/component: workspace-secret <6>
data:
  __<mykey>__: __<myvalue>__ <7>
  __<otherkey>__: __<othervalue>__ <8>
----
<1> Enables automatic mounting into all workspace containers.
<2> Mounts the secret as a variable. 
<3> Provisions the `__<FOO_ENV>__` environment variable into all workspace containers using the value of __<mykey>__.
<4> Provisions the `__<OTHER_ENV>__` environment variable into all workspace containers using the value of __<otherkey>__.
<5> Matches the configured default label.
<6> Matches the configured default label.
<7> Provisions the `__<myvalue>__` data key value into all workspace containers.
<8> Provisions the `__<othervalue>__` data key value into all workspace containers.
```

[id="mounting-a-secret-as-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container_{context}"]
= Mounting a secret as an environment variable into a workspace container

> A secret can be mounted from the user’s {orch-namespace} as an environment variable (or variables) in single-workspace or multiple-workspace containers of {prod-short}.

Reviewer 3: Extend the suggestions from the previous topic to this one.

Author: @rolfedh Thank you, Rolfe!
